
--- Page 1 ---
國立中興大學女生宿舍公約及違規處理要點

National Chung Hsing University Female Dormitory Codes and

Directives Governing the Handling of Violations

108.03.11 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

March 11, 2019 amended at the Female’ Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

108.11.13 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

November 13, 2019 amended at the Females Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

109.06.24 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

June 24, 2020 amended at the Female Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

110.07.08 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

July 8, 2021 amended at the Female’s Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

111.07.04 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

July 4, 2022 amended at the Female Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

112.08.15 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

August 15, 2023 amended at the Femals Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

113.08.20 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

August 20, 2024 amended at the Female Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

114.08.20 女生宿舍服務委員會會議修正

August 20, 2025 amended at the Female Dormitory Service Committee Meeting

第一條 
凡涉及住宿期間、宿舍區域內發生之事件，均得以宿舍公約規範
之。

Article 1 
These Dormitory Codes shall govern all incidents occurring in the 
dormitory areas during residents’ accommodation period. 
第二條 
為維護宿舍秩序，由女宿服務委員監督執行本宿舍公約，若有違
反本校學生宿舍公約及 違規處理要點，具體情況屬實者則依公約
條例進行懲處。記滿 15 點者僅可住滿該學期，爾後不得再申請
住宿。記滿 20 點一律退宿，並於一週內搬離，視情況最多延長

至兩週內搬離，不得再有異議，休學、退學等須立即退宿者亦
同。（詳見女生宿舍違規處理要點）

Article 2 
To maintain the order of the dormitories, the Female Dormitory Service 
Committee Members shall supervise the implementation of these 
Dormitory Codes. If there is a violation of these Dormitory Codes and 
the specific circumstances are verified to be true, punishment shall be


--- Page 2 ---
imposed pursuant to thereof. Residents who are imposed 15 demerit

points can only stay in the dormitory until the end of this semester and 
are not allowed to apply for accommodation in the future. Students 
who are imposed 20 demerit points shall withdraw from the dormitory 
within one week. Depending on the situation, it may be extended to a 
maximum of two weeks before moving out, and no further objections 
may be raised. The same applies to those who are on suspension of 
studies or drop out. (Please refer to the Directives Governing the 
Handling of Violations for Female’s dormitories). 
第三條 
宿舍床位由服務中心分配調整，住宿生不得拒絕床位安排及調
整。另若寢室僅剩一人時，服務中心因考量安全需求有權利安排

更換至其他寢室(不算於換寢次數內)。未經許可，擅自進住、私自
換床位或至他人寢室就寢，記  15  點。如欲更換寢室，可於每
學期換寢申請期間內遞交申請資料，該學期更換寢室以一次為

限，惟下列情形不設此限 (1)與室友嚴重生活作息不協調者，經服
務委員協調無效。(2)因受傷以致行動不便需申請休養室者。(3)突
發個案。若未事先申請，視同私自換床位。

Article 3 
The dormitory bed spaces are allocated and adjusted by the Dormitory 
Service Center, and residents are not allowed to refuse the bed 
arrangement and adjustment. In addition, if there is only one resident 
left in the dormitory, the Dormitory Service Center has the right to 
arrange said resident to another room for safety reasons (not counted as

a room change). Students who live in dormitories, change beds, or 
sleep in other residents’ rooms without permission shall be imposed 15

demerit points. If a resident wants to change the room, she may file an 
application during the specified period in each semester. Each resident 
can only change room once every semester, except for the following 
situations: (1) those who are seriously incompatible with their 
roommates, and the mediation efforts made by the Dormitory Service 
Committee Members are unable to produce results; (2) those who have 
limited mobility due to injury and must apply for a recuperation room. 
(3) unexpected cases. If an application is not filed in advance, the

change of bed spaces shall be regarded as unauthorized. 
第四條 
禁止在女宿內或公共區域走道上打球。

Article 4 
Playing ball is prohibited in dormitory rooms or in public hallways. 
第五條 
女宿公共區域禁止張貼各項宣傳海報，一經發現一律清除，不得
有異議，惟經女宿服務中心核准校內單位衛教單等除外；若貼在
房門上的海報有同學反應內容不當，女宿服務中心及服務委員會


--- Page 3 ---
可強制要求撤下海報。

Article 5 
Propaganda posters are banned in the dormitories. Once found, they 
shall be removed without any objection. However, the ban does not 
apply to health and education posters issued by the University units 
which have been approved by the Dormitory Service Center. If a poster 
on a door is reported by a resident as inappropriate, the female 
Dormitory Service Center and the Dormitory Service Committee have 
the authority to remove it forcibly. 
第六條 
如於宿舍內行使宣傳活動（含發傳單）或招募社員等行為，抑或
有意帶非住宿生進入宿舍進行宣傳，經舉報記 10 點處分。若住
宿生有遇到此狀，可蒐證。

Article 6 
If any promotional activities (including distributing flyers) or 
recruitment of members are conducted within the dormitories, or if 
non-residents are brought into the dormitories intentional for 
promotion, 10 demerit points shall be imposed on the violators, if 
reported. Residents encountering such situations may collect evidence. 
第七條 
夜間 12 時過後，尊重室友生活之差異性，關大燈、開小燈，輕
聲作業並及早就寢，以維持身體健康。

Article 7 
After 12 midnight, residents should respect the differences in lifestyles 
of one another by turning off the main lights, using table lamps, 
working quietly, and going to bed early to maintain good health. 
第八條 
宿舍大門門禁時間為 24 小時，進出者皆須刷卡進出。

Article 8 
Curfew is imposed on the dormitories 24 hours a day. Residents are 
required to use their student ID card to enter and leave the dormitories. 
第九條 
違規處理要點如下：

Article 9 
The directives for handling violations are as follows: 
一、 
宿舍全面禁止吸菸，違者記 10 點。在宿舍區內禁止飲酒，飲酒
者記 5 點、酒醉滋事者經舉報(拍照)記 10 點，情節嚴重者勒
令退宿。

I. 
No smoking is allowed in the dormitories. Those who violate this ban 
shall be imposed 10 demerit points. No drinking is allowed in the 
dormitories. If reported (with photographic evidence), residents who

drink alcohol in the dormitories shall be imposed 5 demerit points, 
and residents who make a commotion after drinking shall be imposed 
10 demerit points. In serious cases, those who violate this ban shall be 
expelled from the dormitories. 
二、 
宿舍內禁止賭博，違者視情節議處

II. 
Gambling is prohibited in the dormitories. Violators shall be


--- Page 4 ---
penalized according to the severity of the case. 
三、 
宿舍區域內禁止飼養動物，違者記 5 點，未改善者，得連續加
記。

III. 
Keeping pets in the dormitory areas is prohibited. Violators shall be 
imposed five demerit points. If the issue is not resolved, more demerit 
points may be imposed. 
四、 
宿舍區域禁用電視、電熨斗、電暖爐、除濕機、冰箱及其他 500 
瓦以上之高功率電器 (除吹風機、電腦設備、經服務中心核准發
證之冰箱外)，違者經服務委員勸導改善，屢勸不聽者得勒令移
除，違者視情節議處。

IV. 
The use of televisions, irons, electric heaters, dehumidifiers,

refrigerators, and other high-power appliances above 500 watts 
(except for hair dryers, computer equipment, and certified 
refrigerators approved by the Dormitory Service Center) is prohibited 
in the dormitory areas. Violators shall be advised by the Dormitory 
Service Committee Members to correct the issue. For repeat 
violations, the equipment may be forcibly removed, and further 
penalties shall be imposed based on the severity of the violation. 
五、 
寢室內禁止煮食或持有電鍋、快煮鍋、烤箱、電磁爐等煮食器
具，違者經服務委員勸導改善，屢勸不聽者得勒令移除，違者視
情節議處。

V. 
Cooking or possessing cooking appliances such as electric cookers,

hot pots, ovens, and induction cookers is prohibited in dormitory 
rooms. Violators shall be advised to make corrections by the

Dormitory Service Committee Members. Repeat violations may lead 
to the removal of the appliance and further penalties, depending on 
the severity of the case. 
六、 
宿舍內禁止使用煤油爐、卡式爐等明火工具或其他危險物品，違
者勒令退宿。

VI. 
The use of kerosene stoves, portable gas stoves, and other open-flame 
apparatuses or dangerous items is prohibited in the dormitories. 
Violators shall be expelled from the dormitories. 
七、 
00：00-07：00 禁用洗衣機、烘衣機、脫水機，違者任何人皆可
掀蓋，且違者記 5 點。

VII. 
From 00:00 to 07:00, the use of washing machines, clothes dryers, 
and spin dryers is prohibited. Anyone may stop said machines if they 
are found to be used at these hours. Furthermore, the violator shall be 
imposed five demerit points.


--- Page 5 ---
八、 
請住宿生共同維護環境整潔，勿破壞公物，並請勿於公共區域

（含寢室外走廊）放置任何影響他人通道之私人物品，違者記 
10 點。

VIII. 
Residents are required to maintain the cleanliness of the dormitories, 
and may not damage any public property. Personal items may not be 
placed at the public area (including the corridors outside the 
dormitory rooms) that interfere with the passage of others. Violators 
shall be imposed 10 demerit points. 
九、 
住宿生擅自帶非本宿舍住宿生進入宿舍區域，或留宿於中興大學
之其他宿舍，記10 點，情節嚴重者，勒令退宿。

IX. 
If a resident brings a non-resident into the dormitory area without

permission or stays overnight in another dormitory at the University, 
she shall be imposed 10 points. In severe cases, the resident shall be 
expelled from the dormitory. 
十、 
寒暑假未申請住宿並私自留宿者，需繳清住宿費與水電費並不予
以退費，下學期續住者加記 10 點。

X. 
Those who reside in the dormitories during the winter or summer 
break without permission shall be required to pay the accommodation 
and utility fees, which are non-refundable. Additionally, 10 demerit 
points shall be imposed for those who continue to reside in the 
dormitories in the following semester. 
十一、 有床位而未進住或每週有三次以上無故未在寢室就寢者，一律退

宿。

XI. 
Residents who are given a bed space but do not live in the dormitory,

or residents who have not stayed in their dormitory rooms three times 
per week shall be ordered to check out of the dormitory. 
十二、 宿舍內外請保持輕聲，任何聲音以不影響隔鄰寢室為準，違者記

5 點。屢勸不聽者，加記 10 點。

XII. 
Residents are required to maintain low voices at the dormitory areas. 
As a rule of thumb, the sound produced may not disturb others in the 
adjacent rooms. Else, the violators shall be imposed five demerit 
points. Furthermore, repeat violators shall be imposed 10 extra

demerit points. 
十三、 請尊重其他住宿生，勿侵害他人隱私，違者記 5 點，視情節輕

重得加重至 20 點。未經許可不得擅自開啟他人寢室、抽屜、衣
櫃，或有任何竊取財物之行為，違者依情節輕重議處；服務委員
值勤公務不在此限，得以在公務範圍內進入住宿生房間執行公
務，住宿生不得異議。


--- Page 6 ---
XIII. 
Residents are required to respect other fellow residents and may not

infringe the privacy of others. Violators shall be imposed 5 demerit 
points, which can be increased to 20 demerit points depending on the 
severity of the case. Residents may not enter other residents’ rooms, 
open their drawers or wardrobes without permission, or steal others’ 
property. Violators shall be punished according to the seriousness of 
the case. The restriction does not apply to Dormitory Service 
Committee Members who are on duty. They may enter the dormitory 
rooms to perform official duties within their scope, and the residents 
shall not object. 
十四、 未依宿舍丟棄物分類指示丟棄垃圾，記 10 點，並行勞動服務 5

小時。若不願行勞動服務，再記 10 點。

XIV. 
Those who do not dispose of garbage according to the garbage sorting 
instructions of the dormitories shall be imposed 10 demerit points and 
shall perform 5 hours of labor service. If residents are unwilling to 
perform the labor service, 10 more demerit points shall be imposed. 
十五、 食物殘渣（如茶葉、泡麵、果皮等）不得倒入飲水機及洗手檯水

槽、馬桶，違者記 10 點。

XV. 
Do not dump food residue such as used tea leaves, noodles, and fruit 
peel, in the drip trays of water dispensers, sink, or toilet. Violators 
shall be imposed 10 demerit points. 
十六、 未經許可，不得擅自占用公共設備及插座、逕行拔除公共設備或

緊急逃生設備之插頭，違者記 10 點，情節嚴重者依校規處理。

XVI. 
Do not occupy public equipment and sockets, or unplug public

equipment and emergency escape equipment without permission. 
Violators shall be imposed 10 demerit points. If the circumstances are 
serious, they shall be dealt with according to university regulations. 
第十條 
女生宿舍自行車及機車停放規則如下：

Article 10 
Regulations of parking bicycles and motorcycles in the dormitories are 
as follows: 
一、 
凡女生宿舍之同學均享有申請車證停車之權利，惟限自己之車
輛，採一人一車制，自行車或機車擇一。若經發現申請人代人申

請，則申請人與被申請人於住宿期間一律取消該權利。

I. 
All residents have the right to apply for a parking permit. Each 
resident can only apply for one permit for either a bicycle or a 
motorcycle. If a resident is found applying for a permit for another 
person, this right shall be suspended during her stay at the dormitory. 
二、 
車證由服務委員會分配調整，不得隨意更換車證，亦不得無任何


--- Page 7 ---
理由取消、申請更換車位。

II. 
The parking permit is subject to the allocation and adjustment by the 
Dormitory Service Committee, and may not be changed at will, or 
canceled, or have its parking space replaced without cause. 
三、 
自行車、機車請依宿舍規畫區域停車，一車一證。

III. 
Bicycles and motorcycles should be parked in the designated 
dormitory parking areas, according to the one vehicle per permit rule. 
四、 
非停車空間停放車輛均屬違規，違規車輛將上鎖，被上鎖之車主
請至服務中心解鎖。

IV. 
Parking outside of the parking lots shall be considered a violation, 
and the vehicle shall be locked up. The owner can go to the

Dormitory Service Center to have their vehicle unlocked. 
五、 
違規停車之處分方式為：違規者收取違規金 100 元，累犯者加
記 5 點 (可以累記)，另可於當學期以一小時的勞動服務，領回

違規金，如未領回將繳回校務基金。服務中心解鎖時間上午九時
至十時半；下午六時至七時。

V. 
The penalty for illegal parking is as follows: Violators shall be 
imposed a fine of NT$100, and repeat offenders shall be deducted an 
additional 5 demerit points (can be accumulated). Furthermore, the 
fine may be claimed back by performing one hour of labor service in 
the current semester. If not, the fine shall goes to the University 
Endowment Fund. The Dormitory Service Center unlocking hours are

from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.; and 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
六、 
若當學年違規累計三次以上者，則立即取消車證資格，該學年內
不得重新申請。

VI. 
Residents who accumulate three parking violations in an academic 
year shall have their parking permit canceled immediately, and they 
shall not be allowed to re-apply in the same academic year. 
七、 
自行破壞鎖扣者，以破壞公物論，扣財保金。自行解鎖者，記 5 
點。

VII. 
Residents who break the lock on their own shall be deemed as 
vandalizing public property and their security deposit shall be

withheld. Those who break the lock by themselves shall be imposed 
five demerit points. 
八、 
各軒門口為重點取締區，任何時間皆嚴禁臨時停車。

VIII. 
Parking, including temporary parking, at dormitory entrances is 
strictly prohibited at all hours. 
九、 
其餘事項，依學生宿舍自行車及機車管理辦法辦理。


--- Page 8 ---
IX. 
Other matters not covered shall be handled according to the

Directives Governing the Management of Bicycles and Motorbikes at 
Student Dormitories. 
第十一條 
女生宿舍每學期於住宿生學雜費中預收水電費、清潔費，每學年
收取清潔保證金及財產保證金。

Article 11 
Every semester, the dormitories shall collect prepayment of utility fee 
and cleaning fees from the residents’ tuition and miscellaneous fees. 
Additionally, security deposits for room cleaning and property shall 
also be collected every academic year. 
一、 
水電費於每學期初收取，學年末統一退費，多退少補。

I. 
The utility fee shall be collected at the beginning of each semester. At

the end of the academic year, residents shall receive a refund for 
overpayment or make up for any shortfall based on actual 
consumption. 
二、 
清潔費係為宿舍公共區域打掃的費用，不另行退費。

II. 
The cleaning fee covers the cost of cleaning the dormitories’ public 
areas and shall not be refunded. 
三、 
清潔保證金及財產保證金於學年住宿結束時全額退費；惟學期結
束或退宿前，若未主動向幹部提出清潔檢查，抑或檢查未通過、
未於時間內離宿者，將委由清潔公司打掃並不予退還清潔保證
金，寢室財產有缺損者，則依缺損之財產價格，由同寢同學共同
負擔，各酌扣財產保證金，多退少補，寢室財務毀損可歸咎於個

人，則酌扣毀損者保證金。

III. 
The security deposits for room cleaning and property shall be fully

refunded at the end of the academic year. However, if residents do not 
proactively request the dormitory staff for a cleanliness inspection at 
the end of the semester or when checking out, or if they fail the 
inspection or do not vacate the dormitory on time, a cleaning 
company shall be hired, and the security deposit for room cleaning 
shall not be refunded. If there is any damage to dormitory property, 
the cost shall be shared among all roommates based on the value of 
the damaged property, and the corresponding amount shall be

deducted from the security deposit for property, to which residents 
shall receive a refund for overpayment or make up for any shortfall. 
四、 
每學期未按時繳交費用者，記 10 點，經催繳無效，加倍累計點
數並通知家長。

IV. 
Failure to pay fees on time each semester shall result in 10 demerit 
points. If payment is not made after a reminder, the demerit points


--- Page 9 ---
shall be doubled, and the resident’s parents shall be notified. 
五、 
每學期需繳交網路費，不予退費。

V. 
Dormitory internet access fee must be paid each semester and is non-
refundable. 
第十二條 
宿舍網路使用規定：

Article 12 
Terms of using dormitory internet: 
一、 
宿舍網路隸屬於學校網路，使用者應遵守計資中心相關使用規
範。

I. 
The dormitory network is part of the University’s network, and users 
must comply with the related usage regulations formulated by the 
Computer and Information Network Center. 
二、 
流量限制以單日上傳 5G、下載 8G 為原則。單日流量超過者，
將由計資中心進行限速，並於隔日(05:00)回復網路。

II. 
The daily data limits are set to 5 GB for uploads and 8 GB for 
downloads. If the daily data limits are exceeded, the Computer and 
Information Network Center shall reduce the network speed, and the 
normal speed shall resume the following day (at 05:00). 
三、 
網管室之服務時間由各棟宿舍網管公告。

III. 
The service hours of the network management office shall be 
announced by the network administrators of each dormitory. 
四、 
嚴禁使用者利用宿舍網路從事任何非法行為，如濫發信件、網路
攻擊、侵犯他人隱私以及任何破壞網路正常運作行為等，為維護

網路之正常運作，計資中心將立即執行斷網六小時（可連續斷
網），嚴重者將處以人工截斷。

IV. 
Users are strictly prohibited against engaging in any illegal activities 
using the dormitory network, such as spamming, network attacks, 
invasion of privacy, and any actions that disrupt the normal operation 
of the network. To maintain network stability, the Computer and 
Information Network Center shall immediately implement a six-hour 
network disconnection (which may be consecutive). Severe violations 
shall result in manual disconnection. 
五、 
為保護智慧財產權，校園網路禁止使用 P2P 軟體，違者計資中

心將阻斷該應用程式。

V. 
To protect intellectual property rights, the use of P2P software is 
prohibited on the campus network. Violators shall have the 
application blocked by the Computer and Information Network 
Center. 
六、 
宿舍網路皆須註冊才可使用，接好網路線後，請在網址的地方輸


--- Page 10 ---
入 140.120.4.13 按 enter 進入註冊頁面，詳細的註冊方法請

google「中興宿舍網路申請」。

VI. 
Registration is required for accessing the dormitory network. After 
connecting the network cable, enter 140.120.4.13 in the browser’s 
address bar to access the registration page. For detailed registration 
instructions, please search for “NCHU Dormitory Network 
Application.” 
第十三條 
宿舍公用冰箱使用，請依國立中興大學學生宿舍公用冰箱使用管
理要點規定，未遵守管理要點者，將記 5 點，屢勸不聽得以累
加。

Article 13 
Using the public refrigerators in the dormitories, please follow the

National Chung Hsing University Directives Governing the Use and 
Management of Student Dormitory Refrigerators. Those who fail to 
comply shall be imposed five demerit points. More demerit points shall 
be accumulated for repeat violators. 
第十四條 
請遵守各棟公共空間使用規範，未遵守規範者，將記 5 點，屢勸
不聽得以累加。

Article 14 
Please follow the rules for the use of public spaces in each building. 
Those who do not follow the rules shall be imposed 5 demerit points. 
More demerit points shall be accumulated for repeat violators. 
第十五條 
房間內禁止使用會損壞床組及牆面、門窗、地板之膠帶、黏貼
鏡、無痕黏土或掛勾等具有黏性之物品，若同學有使用之必要請

用無痕掛勾及無痕膠帶，並於退宿清檢時清除乾淨(必須清到無膠
痕)，違者依損壞程度扣財產保證金及清潔保證金。

Article 15 
The use of adhesive items such as adhesive tapes, adhesive mirrors, 
reusable adhesive tack, or hooks that may damage the bed set, walls, 
doors, windows, or floors is prohibited in dormitory rooms. If required, 
residents shall use damage-free hooks and damage-free tape, and 
ensure they are removed entirely (with no adhesive residue) during the 
room inspection upon check-out. Violators shall have their security 
deposits for room cleaning and property deducted according to the 
extent of the damage. 
第十六條 
請同學勿將衛生紙/棉/條及廚餘異物倒入馬桶、水槽內，以免造成
堵塞，若須修繕需全寢負擔修繕費用。

Article 16 
Please do not throw toilet paper, sanitary napkins, tampons, kitchen 
waste, etc. into the toilet to avoid clogging. If repair is required, the 
cost shall be shared by all residents in the room. 
第十七條 
住宿生應定期清潔寢室內排水孔殘留毛髮且不得將食物倒入排水


--- Page 11 ---
孔、洗手台或馬桶中。如遇堵塞狀況亦可以優先嘗試自行疏通，

可至服務中心借用馬通吸盤或一字起子，若因毛髮或食物等人為
因素所導致的堵塞而報修，將向住宿生收取額外的修繕費用。

Article 17 
Residents should regularly clean the hair clogging the drain holes in 
bath rooms and are not allowed to pour food waste into drain holes or 
toilets. If there is a clog, residents shall first try to clear it by using a 
toilet plunger or a flathead screwdriver available at the Dormitory 
Service Center. If the clog is caused by excessive hair or food, and 
reported for repair, the residents shall be charged for additional repair 
fees. 
第十八條 
各棟、各寢室電箱請勿擅自開啟，一經發現，整寢室記 10 點處

分，屢勸不聽得以累加。

Article 18 
Residents are not allowed to open the electric boxes without 
permission. If found, all residents in the room shall be imposed 10 
demerit points. More demerit points shall be accumulated for repeat 
violators. 
第十九條 
凡未帶寢室鑰匙至警衛室借用鑰匙超過兩次者，該學年第三次
起，每次借用都須登記勞動服務一個小時，押金 100 元，須在一
週內執行，執行完畢後退還押金。

Article 19 
Residents who forget their room key and have to borrow the key from 
the security room more than twice, starting from the third time in the 
academic year, the residents must register and perform labor service of

one hour for each loan, with a deposit of NT$100. The labor service 
must be performed within one week, after which the deposit shall be

refunded. 
第二十條 
銷點實施辦法：

Article 20 
Expunction of demerit points: 
一、 
受記點處分的住宿生，應於記點單日期起算7 日內，至女宿服務
中心填寫申請表，提出銷點申請，超過 7 日不得申請。

I. 
Residents with demerit points shall file an expunction application 
within seven days after the demerit points are imposed at the 
Dormitory Service Center. Late application shall not be accepted. 
二、 
申請銷點以事件為計算單位完成，申請後須於兩個月內完成銷點
程序，若期間無法全數時數服務完畢，則不予以註銷。

II. 
The expunction application shall be completed on an event-by-event 
basis. After applying, the expunction process must be completed 
within two months. If the required labor service hours cannot be fully 
performed within this period, the demerit points shall not be


--- Page 12 ---
expunged. 
三、 
銷 1 點需勞動服務 1 小時，由女宿服務中心指揮並監督住宿生
完成勞動服務。

III. 
One demerit point may be expunged by performing one hour of labor 
service. The performance of labor service shall be assigned and 
supervised by the Dormitory Service Center. 
四、 
完成後由女宿服務中心蓋章認證後，才完成銷點。

IV. 
After performing the labor service and obtaining the Dormitory 
Service Center’s confirmation stamp, the demerit points shall be 
expunged. 
第二十一條 依學校出納組規定，住宿生須將本人紙本帳戶資料(父母及親友，

概不收受)，依規定時間內繳交至各樓層服務委員，並登錄至「學
生撥款局帳號登錄系統」 
(https://transformers.nchu.edu.tw/acclogin/acclogin/)。未完成填寫者

及繳交者，學期結束後將無法辦理退費。

Article 21 
According to regulations of the Cashier Division, residents shall hand 
in a copy of their postal saving passbook (accounts of parents or 
relatives will not be accepted) to the Dormitory Service Committee 
Member at each floor at the specified time, and fill in the information 
on the Student Accounts Registration system 
(https://transformers.nchu.edu.tw/acclogin/). Those who fail to submit 
the information as mentioned above shall not be able to receive the

refund after the end of the semester. 
第二十二條 進出各棟宿舍出入口時，請隨手關門。若發現有阻擋或破壞門禁

系統之情形，記 10 點，並照價賠償，累犯者一律退宿。

Article 22 
Residents are required to close the door behind them when entering or 
exiting dormitory buildings. If residents are found to block or damage 
the access control system, they shall be imposed 10 demerit points and 
liable for compensating the damage. Repeat violators shall be ordered 
to check out of the dormitories. 
第二十三條 其它浪費公共資源、違反公共衛生、違反公共區域使用規則、妨

害居住安寧或公共安全之行為者，服務委員得以視情節懲處，情

節重大者得予以退宿。

Article 23 
For other acts of wasting public resources, violating public health 
regulations or rules for the use of public areas, or obstructing 
tranquility or public safety, the Dormitory Service Committee 
Members may impose punishment according to the severity of the case. 
For serious cases, residents may be ordered to check out of the


--- Page 13 ---
dormitories. 
第二十四條 本宿舍公約如有不完備之處，得經女宿服務委員會及女宿服務中

心討論通過，送住宿輔導組核備後，公告實施。

Article 24 
Any matters not covered herein shall be discussed and passed by the 
Dormitory Service Committee and the Dormitory Service Center, 
submitted to the Student Housing Service Division for approval and 
recordation, and announced publicly before implementation.

