
--- Page 1 ---
國立中興大學住宿生代表產生辦法 
National Chung Hsing University Measures of Resident

Student Representatives Selection

99 年7 月21 日學生事務長核定通過（第0990300546 號簽呈） 
Approved by the Director of Office of Student Affairs on July 21, 2010

(Brief Document No.0990300546 submitted) 
100 年7 月26 日學生事務長核定通過（第1000300555 號簽呈修訂）

Approved by the Director of Office of Student Affairs on July 26, 2011

(revised according to the Brief 
Document No. 1000300555 submitted) 
112 年10 月24 日112 學年度第1 學期住宿生代表會修訂通過 
Approved by the Resident Student Representatives Committee on Oct 24, 2023

第一條 
本辦法依據「國立中興大學學生住宿輔導辦法」訂定之。 
Article 1 This measure is formulated according to Dormitory Regulations of National Chung

Hsing University.

第二條 
本會幹部之產生：

一、主席由住宿生代表互選產生。 
二、住宿生代表應為當學年住宿生，且具服務熱忱者，於公開徵選時間內，獲得30

位住宿生(該區住宿生不滿30人時，不在此限內)連署同意推薦產生。 
三、代表人數每棟至少一人，按各棟住宿人數在三百人以下者，得設代表一人；住

宿人數在三百(不含)至六百人以下者，得設置二人，六百人(不含)至九百人者得
設置三人，九百人(不含)以上得設置四人。 
四、當住宿生代表人數不足時，得由住宿輔導組推薦服務委員(排除主、副委)兼任。

Article 2 Selection of the members for the committee:

1. Chairman

Selected from representatives of resident students. 
2. Representatives shall be the resident of academic year and shall be with enthusiasm.

Resident student representatives should be recommended by 30 residents during the 
public selection period (this limit does not apply if there are less than 30 residents in the 
area). 
3. There must be at least one representative in each building. If the number of

accommodations in each building is less than 300 people, one representative may be 
appointed; if the number of accommodations in each building is between 300 (exclusive) 
and 600 persons or less, there may be two representatives. If the number of 
accommodations in each building is from 600 to 900, there may be three representatives, 
and if there are more than 900 accommodations in each building, four representatives will 
be required. 
4. When the number of representatives is insufficient, Members of Student Dormitory

Service Committee recommend by the Division of Student Housing Service (the 
chairperson and vice chairperson excluded) may doubling as the resident student 
representatives.

第三條 
住宿生代表任期為一學年。（開學第 3 週起至次年 6 月 30 日） 
Article 3 
The term of resident student representatives is an academic year. (From the third

week of the academic year to June 30 of the following year)

第四條 
住宿生代表權益： 
一、頒發服務證明。 
二、任期期滿辦理獎懲，由住宿輔導組辦理考核，考核分數達80分(含)以上，保障下


--- Page 2 ---
學年住宿床位。。 
Article 4 Rights and interests of resident student representatives:

1. Obtain service certificates. 
2. Receive rewards or punishments upon expiration of the term of office. Those who get a

score of 80 in the assessment by Division of Student Housing Service will receive a 
guarantee of accommodation for next academic year.  
第五條 
住宿生代表若有下列情形之一者，得由其他住宿生代表決議後解職：

一、行為不當，經住宿輔導組認定，足以破壞本會形象及名譽者。

二、開會無故缺席一次以上者。  
三、其他住宿生代表過半數要求更換者。 
四、住宿生代表自行提出申請。

Article 5 A representative may be dismissed according to resolutions by other representatives of

each department when any of the following circumstances apply: 
1. Improper conduct that damages the image and reputation of the committee. 
2. Absence from the meeting more than one time without reason. 
3. More than half of the representatives request a replacement. 
4. Application by the representatives themselves.

第六條 
住宿生代表之遞補，依本辦法重新產生之。 
Article 6 
The replacement of resident student representatives shall be made according

to this measure.

第七條 
本辦法住宿生代表會議通過擬訂，陳請學務長核定後公布實施，修正時亦同。 
Article 7 
 This measure is formulated by Resident Student Representative Committee and be 
approved by the Director of Office of Student Affairs before taking effect. Amendments 
shall be processed accordingly.


--- Page 3 ---
附表一

Annex 1

國立中興大學住宿生代表推薦函

Recommendation Letter for Resident Student Representative(NCHU)

連絡方式

系級

被推薦人
Candidate

Department

Contact 
電子信箱 
Email

姓名

Name

寢室分機 
Dorm telephone 
連絡電話 
Mobile phone 
我們同意由被推薦人擔任本系住宿生代表。 
We agree that the candidate will act as the department's boarding student representative.

附註：若連署簽名不實，願接受校規懲處。 
Remark: If the co-signature is not true, we are willing to accept punishment.

同寢室請填寫在同一四方格中。

Please fill in the same square for the same room.

推薦人簽名

寢室號碼Dorm 
No

Referrer's

寢室號碼Dorm 
No.

signature

推薦人簽名
Referrer's 
signature

收件日期： 
年 
月 
日 
Receipt date:

2

