
--- Page 1 ---
國立中興大學住宿生代表會組織章程

National Chung Hsing University Articles of Association for Resident

Student Representative Committee

99 年7 月21 日學生事務長核定通過（第0990300546 號簽呈） 
Approved by the Director of Office of Student Affairs on July 21, 2010

(Brief Document No.0990300546 submitted)                       
100 年7 月26 日學生事務長核定通過（第1000300555 號簽呈修訂）

Approved by the Director of Office of Student Affairs on July 26, 2011 
 (Revised according to the Brief Document No. 1000300555 submitted)

112 年10 月24 日112 學年度第1 學期住宿生代表會修訂通過 
Approved by the Resident Student Representatives Committee on Oct 24, 2023

壹、 總則

I. 
General Principles

第一條 為培養自治精神、增進住宿生參與宿舍管理、蒐集住宿生意見及改善

住宿環境，依據「國立中興大學學生住宿輔導辦法」設立住宿生代表
會（以下簡稱「本會」）。

Article 1  
In order to foster the spirit of self-government, enhance the participation of residents in 
dormitory management, collect advise from residents, and improve the living 
environment, a Resident Student Representative Committee (hereinafter referred to as 
"the Committee") is established according to Dormitory Regulations of National Chung

Hsing University. 
第二條 本會由學務處住宿輔導組成立，接受住宿輔導組之指導及監督。

Article 2

The Committee is established by Division of Student Housing Service in Office of 
Student Affairs and is subject to guidance and supervision of Division of Student 
Housing Service. 
第三條 本章程根據本校學生住宿輔導辦法相關規定制定之。

Article 3

The articles of association are formulated according to the relevant regulations in

Dormitory Regulations of National Chung Hsing University.

貳、 組織與職掌

II. Organization and Responsibility

第四條 本會設置主席一名及住宿生代表等若干名。

Article 4  
The Committee has a chairman and several representatives of resident students.


--- Page 2 ---
第五條 本會之職掌如下：

一、彙集住宿同學之建議，轉知住宿輔導組報請學校有關單位 
二、協助宿舍管理之相關規章之修訂。

Article 5  
The responsibilities of the Committee are as follows:

1. 
Collect advises from resident students and notify division of student 
housing service of NCHU to report to relevant divisions. 
2. 
Assist in the amendment of dormitory relevant regulations. 
第六條 本會幹部之職掌：

一、主席

(一) 每學期召開至少一次住宿生代表會會議。

(二) 對外代表本會，對內管理本會業務。 
二、住宿生代表：

(一)負責蒐集住宿生意見。

(二)提供住宿生活興革事項。 
(三)協助宿舍相關規章修訂。 
Article 6  
Responsibilities of the cadres of the Committee:

1. Chairman

(1) Hold at least one resident student representative meeting for each

semester.

(2) Represent the Committee externally and manage the business of the

Committee internally.

2. Representative of resident students

(1) Collect advises from resident students.

(2) Providing suggestions related to dormitory life and environments.

(3) Assist in the amendment of dormitory relevant regulations.

參、 會議

III. Meeting

第七條 本會會議以每學期至少召開一次為原則，由主席負責主持會議，得邀

請學務處相關長官、住宿輔導組組長及宿舍服務中心代表出席指導。

議決事項時應有二分之一以上代表出席，且三分之二以上同意始得決
議，決議事項送住宿輔導組備查。

Article 7  
The Committee shall hold at least one meeting for each semester. The chairman is 
responsible for presiding over the meeting. The director of the Office of Student Affairs, 
the head of the Division of Student Housing Service, and the representative of the


--- Page 3 ---
Dormitory Service Center may be invited to attend the meeting. A resolution shall be

made only when more than half of the representatives are present, and more than two-
thirds of them agree with it. The resolution shall be reported to the Division of Student 
Housing Service. 
第八條 本會得經二分之一以上代表連署召開臨時會議，主席應於十日內召開

之。

Article 8  
The Committee may convene a temporary meeting with the joint signature of more 
than half of the representatives, and the chairman shall call it within ten days. 
第九條 住宿生代表有參加住宿生代表會各項會議之義務，若因故未能參加會

議，應向主席請假。

Article 9

The resident student representatives are obliged to participate in various meetings of

the Resident Student Representative Committee. If they fail to attend the meeting for

any reason, they shall report to the chairperson.

肆、 附則

IV. Supplementary Provisions

第十條 本章程如有未盡事宜，由本住宿生代表會議擬訂，陳請學務長核定後公

布實施，修正時亦同。

Article 10

Any matters not covered in the Articles of Association may be revised by Resident 
Student Representative Committee and be approved by the Director of Office of 
Student Affairs before taking effect. Amendments shall be processed accordingly.

