
--- Page 1 ---
國立中興大學學生宿舍自行車及機車管理要點

National Chung Hsing University Directives Governing the Management of

Bicycles and Motorbikes at Student Dormitories

110 年12 月3 日110 學年度第1 學期學生事務會議訂定

December 3, 2021 Formulated by the Student Affairs Meeting for the first semester of Academic Year 2021

一、 國立中興大學（以下簡稱本校）為維護學生宿舍安寧、交通安全、環境景觀及停車秩序，

特依本校「校園交通管理辦法」第十條，訂定「國立中興大學學生宿舍自行車及機車管
理要點」(以下稱本要點)。 
I. 
To maintain the tranquility, traffic safety, environmental landscape, and parking order at student 
dormitories, the National Chung Hsing University (hereinafter referred to as the University) 
has formulated the Directives Governing the Management of Bicycles and Motorbikes at 
Student Dormitories (hereinafter referred to as these Directives) in accordance with Article 10 
of the University’s Regulations Governing the Campus Traffic Management. 
二、 本校學生宿舍自行車及機車管理單位為學生事務處住宿輔導組各學生宿舍區(以下簡稱

各宿舍區)服務中心，由各宿舍區服務委員會(以下簡稱服務委員會)負責執行。 
II. 
The Dormitory Service Centers under the Student Housing Service Division of the Office of 
Student Affairs are responsible for the management of bicycles and motorbikes in respective 
dormitories, while the Dormitory Service Committees (hereinafter referred to as the Service 
Committees) are in charge of the implementations. 
三、 各宿舍區學生之自行車及機車，可透過服務委員會請領車證，欲申請車證之學生，於每

年九月開學後依學生宿舍訂定之規定向服務委員會申請年度識別證貼紙，自行車車證張
貼於龍骨或其他明顯處，機車車證張貼於車牌之四個角落。 
III. 
Students in respective dormitories who wish to get a parking permit for their bicycles and 
motorcycles can apply for an annual parking sticker from the respective Service Committees at 
the beginning of each September in accordance with the dormitory regulations. The parking 
permit for bicycles shall be pasted on the frame or other prominent spots, and the parking permit 
for motorbikes shall be pasted on the four corners of the license plate. 
車牌遺失、被竊、破損或車主換新車時，機車或自行車所有人可向各宿舍區重行申請領

取新貼紙。 
When a license plate is lost, stolen, damaged, or the owner acquires a new motorbike or bicycle,

the owner may reapply for a new sticker from the Dormitory Service Center. 
四、 各宿舍區服務中心於寒暑假各進行一次廢棄(含無人認領)車輛清理工作。清理前，應於

十五日前公告周知，於公告十五日後，無人認領即由各宿舍服務中心通知本校環境保護
暨安全衛生中心統一處理。 
IV. 
Each Dormitory Service Center shall dispose the abandoned (including unclaimed) motorcycles 
and bicycles once in the winter and summer breaks. Before the disposal, an announcement shall 
be made 15 days in advance. The Dormitory Service Center shall notify the University’s 
Occupational Safety and Health and Environmental Protection Center of any unclaimed 
motorbikes and bicycles for unified disposal 15 days after the announcement. 
五、 停放於各宿舍區內之自行車及機車有下列情形之一者，得由服務委員會逕行上鎖：

V. 
Bicycles and motorbikes parked at the dormitory areas may be locked by the Service 
Committees in any of the following circumstances: 
(一) 未依規定懸掛車牌或未張貼年度識別證者。 
(I) 
Bicycles and motorbikes without a license plate or an annual identification sticker in


--- Page 2 ---
accordance with the regulations.

(二) 未停放於指定位置者。 
(II) 
Bicycles and motorbikes that are not parked at the designated locations. 
六、 自行車及機車違反本要點經上鎖者，須於公告時間至總務處出納組繳納每輛每次新台幣

壹佰元違規金後，持收據於規定時間申請解鎖，違規金可換以宿舍區內之勞動服務一小
時折抵，並應於當學期完成勞動服務。 
VI. Owners of bicycles and motorcycles that have been locked due to a violation of these Directives

shall pay a fine of NT$100 per each lock to the Cashier Division of the Office of General Affairs. 
They may present the receipt and have their bicycles or motorbikes unlocked at the specified 
time. Alternatively, the fine can be offset with one hour of labor service in the dormitory, and 
such labor service shall be completed in the current semester. 
七、 服務委員會上鎖後應詳為記錄上鎖車輛地點、上鎖時間及繳費等事項，並於開鎖時核對

領車人之身分、系級、姓名、證件及車牌號碼，並由領車人簽名或蓋章，以供查考。 
VII. After locking a bicycle or a motorcycle, the Service Committee shall record the location, time,

and the fine payment information, verify the identity, class, name, ID, and license plate number 
of the claimer, and obtain the signature or seal of the claimer for record. 
八、 經服務委員會依本要點鎖車，並於車身明顯處貼上告示警告，上鎖公告十五日後，無人

認領即通報各宿舍區服務中心依第四點處理。 
VIII. After the Service Committee locks a bicycle or motorcycle and pastes a warning notice on a

prominent spot of the bicycle or motorcycle, if no one claims it within 15 days, the Service 
Committee shall report to the Dormitory Service Center for disposal according to Article 4. 
九、 宿舍區自行車及機車之停車架（位）僅供停放使用，不負保管責任。

IX. The parking racks (spaces) for bicycles and motorcycles at the dormitory areas are for parking

only and not for safekeeping. 
十、 自行車及機車使用人亦應遵守道路交通安全規則。

X. Riders of bicycles and motorcycles shall observe traffic regulations. 
十一、 本要點經學生事務會議通過後，陳請校長核定實施，修正時亦同。 
XI. 
After these Directives are approved by the Student Affairs Meeting, it shall be submitted to 
the President for approval and implementation, and the same shall apply to amendments hereto.

