
--- Page 1 ---
國立中興大學學生宿舍公有財產物品保管辦法 
National Chung Hsing University Dormitory Public Property 
Management Regulation

99 年8 月6 日第0990300567 號簽呈簽奉校長核定修正 
Amendments are approved by the President on August 6, 2010

100 年8 月2 日第1000300533 號簽呈簽奉校長核定修正 
Amendments are approved by the President on August 2, 2011

103 年6 月3 日第1030300436 號簽呈簽奉校長核定修正

Amendments are approved by the President on June 3, 2014 
104 年3 月2 日第1040300155 號簽呈簽奉校長核定修正 
Amendments are approved by the President on March 2, 2015

104 年4 月13 日第1040300285 號簽呈簽奉校長核定修正 
Amendments are approved by the President on April 13, 2015

第一條 
為統一規定學生宿舍公有財產物品之領取、分配、保管、使用及檢

修，以達愛護公物，物盡其用之目的，特訂定本辦法。

Article 1  This regulation is established to regulate the usage, allocation, 
management, inspection and repair of the public property of dormitory. 
Each student should maintain and keep the public property in good 
condition.

第二條 
男女生宿舍，設公有財產物品管理員一人（以下簡稱管理員），受學

生事務處住宿輔導組督導。

Article 2  
Both boy and girl dormitory will be assigned a public property manager 
who is under the supervision of the Student Housing Services Division 
of the Office of Student Affairs.

第三條 
學生宿舍管理員，其職責如下：

一、 督導與維護公共設施，財產之安全，並隨時檢查登記。

二、 辦理財物申請、分配、送修、廢品繳交、損耗、報銷手續，並

取據及登記。

三、 編列年度修繕預算，並依先後順序，有效控制之。

四、 配合有關單位對學生宿舍環境之整理。

Article 3 
The responsibility of student dormitory manager includes:

1. Supervise students and maintain the public property in the 
dormitory by inspecting facilities regularly to ensure the safety of 
students.

2. In charge of the application, allocation, maintenance and disposal


--- Page 2 ---
of the public property in the dormitory.

3. Make and manage annual maintenance budget efficiently.

4. Maintain the environment and manage the public property of the 
dormitory.

第四條 
學生宿舍內公共使用之公物，概由管理員分配登記，並向管理員出

據借用，一經借用後，即自負保管之責，其有耗損、遺失或修理者，

由管理員申請補充或修理，可報銷者，由管理員報銷，須賠償者，

由使用人照價賠償。

Article 4 
Public properties in the dormitory should be allocated by the dormitory 
manager. Students should register before borrowing and should keep 
properties in good condition. Managers should apply for supplements, 
repairs and disposal if the properties are lost or damaged. And students 
who lost and damage the properties should make compensations for the 
loss.

第五條 
每學期開學前，管理員應將各宿舍學生所需物品檢修、補充準備齊

全，妥交各宿舍服務委員，分配各寢室使用。

Article 5 
Before every semester, dormitory managers should inspect, repair and 
make sure the usability of the public property in the dormitory and hand 
over his/her job to the dormitory service committee members.

第六條 
學生進住宿舍後，均須簽章在財產卡自行負責保管使用，財產卡由

宿舍服務中心統一印發。

Article 6 
Students should all sign on the public property management card and 
keep the card to themselves. Public property card will be distributed by 
the dormitory service center.

第七條 
每屆寒暑假期，學生離校時，應將所借公物，按物品實點交管理員，

其有遺失或故意損壞者，即應賠償，賠償價款由財產保證金中扣除。

Article 7 
Students should give back the public properties they borrowed to their 
dormitory manager before summer and winter vacation. Students who 
lost or damage the properties should make compensation, which should 
be deducted from the guarantee property fee.

第八條 
各寢室內不屬於個人使用之公共設施，如門窗玻璃、電燈等由全室

學生共同蓋章保管，如有損壞，由損壞人賠償，查不出損壞人者，

由全室學生共同賠償，其因天災或人力不可抗拒之原因損壞者，由

住宿輔導組證明報銷，並申請補充。


--- Page 3 ---
Article 8 
Doors, windows, lamps and other public properties should be in charge 
of all students in the dormitory. Students should sign on the 
management form to take on mutual responsibility for public property. 
Properties that damaged should be compensated by the students who 
damage it; if one cannot find who is responsible for it then all students 
in the dormitory should compensate for it together. Dormitory Service 
Commission will apply for the disposal and supplement of the 
properties damaged due to natural disasters or unpredictable 
circumstances.

第九條 
寒暑假放假後，管理員應將學生宿舍內所有公物財產，作全盤之清

查整理，開列清單，以便分別辦理申請補充修繕繳交報廢諸事宜。

Article 9 
After the summer and winter vacation, dormitory manager should 
inspect, count the number of all public property and make a list for 
future reference of maintenance and disposal.

第十條 
負責管理宿舍學生之工作人員，須協助管理員督導學生愛惜公物，

遵守規定，辦理公物之借用出據繳交報銷及賠償諸事宜。

Article 10 
Staff who is in charge of the management of student dormitory should 
help managers encourage students to follow dormitory regulations, 
manage the borrowing, returning, compensation for and disposal of the 
public property.

第十一條 
住宿學生，如因公物發生事故，應由管理員處理，管理員不能處理

者，報由住宿輔導組處理之。

Article 11 
Manager should help students who have accidents due to the using of 
public property. Managers who are not able to handle the situation 
should report to the Dormitory Service Commission.

第十二條 
各宿舍工友及事務助理員，須依管理員指揮調度，以從事公共設施

之維護與公物之領取分發繳交搬運保管等工作。

Article 12 
Janitors and dormitory assistant should follow the order of the 
dormitory manager to allocate and maintain the public property of the 
dormitory.

第十三條 
凡住宿學生使用之公物必須妥善保管及愛護，不得有損壞或遺失者，

應照原物賠償，如故意損壞者，簽予記大過以上之處分。

Article 13 
Students should maintain and keep the public property in good 
condition. Students who lost or damage the public property should 
compensate with the same property and students who deliberately


--- Page 4 ---
damage the property will be given a demerit.

第十四條 
本辦法陳請校長核定後公布實施，修正時亦同。

Article 14 
The regulations shall be implemented after being approved by the 
president. Any amendments shall be processed accordingly.

