
--- Page 1 ---
國立中興大學學生宿舍冷氣卡使用管理要點 
Guidelines for the Management of Air Conditioning Cards in 
Student Dormitories at National Chung Hsing University

113 年12 月17 日第1130301211 號簽呈簽奉校長核定

Amendments are approved by the President on December 17 , 2024 (Brief Document No. 1130301211 submitted)

壹、 目標

I. 
Purpose

(一) 為妥善管理學生宿舍冷氣卡之使用及環保回收獎勵機制，訂定本要點。

1. 
These guidelines are established to ensure the efficient management of air conditioning

card usage in student dormitories and to implement an environmentally friendly recycling

reward mechanism.

貳、 適用範圍

II. 
Scope of Application：

(一) 男宿：仁齋、義齋、禮齋、智齋、信齋。

1. 
Male Dormitories: Renzhai Building, Yizhai Building, Lizhai Building, Zhizhai Building,

and Xinzhai Building.

(二) 女宿：勤軒、怡軒、華軒。

2. 
Female Dormitories: Qinxuan Building, Yixuan Building, Huaxuan Building.

(三) 宿舍公共區域：例如公共廚房等。

3. 
Public Dormitory Areas: Including communal facilities such as shared kitchens.

參、 收費及儲值方式

III. Fees and Recharge Mechanism：

(一) 學生宿舍冷氣費用依使用者付費原則，以採晶片儲值卡(卡片為損耗品，採買斷制)

插卡使用，欲使用宿舍冷氣，以寢室為單位，每度電收費依學校公告費率計價。

1. 
Air conditioning fees in student dormitories operate on a "user pays" principle. Students

must use a chip-based rechargeable card to activate the air conditioning system. (The

cards are consumable items sold outright.) Electricity charges are calculated per room

based on the rate announced by the Housing Assistance Office.

(二) 新卡購買：於宿舍服務中心之售卡機購買冷氣晶片儲值卡(全新)，應繳納卡片費一

百元(製卡成本五十元，卡內儲值五十元)，每張卡片儲值額度使用完畢時可於加值

機再重複儲值。


--- Page 2 ---
2. 
New air conditioning chip cards can be purchased from vending machines at the

Dormitory Service Center. Each card costs NT$100, which includes a NT$50 production

fee and an initial stored value of NT$50. Once the balance is depleted, the card can be

recharged using an add-value machine.

(三) 舊卡購買：於住宿輔導組購買二手舊卡，每張空卡售價二十元。

3. 
Second-hand air conditioning cards can be purchased from the Housing Assistance Office

for NT$20 per card.

(四) 儲值金額如有疑義，由宿舍服務中心協助處理。

4. 
Students with questions about their card balance may seek assistance from the Dormitory

Service Center.

肆、 環保回收機制

IV. Environmental Recycling Mechanism：

(一) 離宿時可先將冷氣晶片儲值卡至多功能繳費機辦理退回儲值餘額至個人悠遊卡，

再至住宿輔導組辦公室繳回已無餘額之冷氣晶片儲值卡。

1. 
Upon checking out of the dormitory, students may use a multifunction payment machine

to transfer any remaining balance from their air conditioning card to their personal

EasyCard. Afterward, the emptied air conditioning card must be returned to the Housing

Assistance Office.

(二) 舊卡經測試卡片可正常使用後扣除折舊費，給予環保獎勵費二十元。

2. 
Used cards that pass functionality testing after accounting for depreciation will qualify

for an environmental reward of NT$20.

伍、 附則

V. 
Appendix

(一) 本要點經校長核准後實施，修正時亦同。

1. 
These guidelines shall come into effect upon approval by the President. Any amendments

to the guidelines will follow the same approval procedure.

